# Municipal bonds
Munis are issued by a city, count, state governments and enterprises with a public purpose 
(electric utilities, universities, hospitals).

They are federally tax exempt. If you live in a state issuing you are also exempt from state
and local taxes. They are second to treasuries in regards of credit safety. The default rate
is extremely low.

# Credit quality
General obligation bonds -- debt raised by state, cities and states for building schools, sewers
roads and so on. Money to pay interest is raised through taxes.

Renevue bonds -- are issued by variety of enterprises that perform public function, such as 
electric utilities, airports, hospitals and so on. Money to pay interest is generated by the
enterprise of the issuer.

There is a missconception, that GOs are safer than revenue bonds. In theory, the issuer has
unlimited power of taxtion, but in reality it is limited by political and eonomic considerations.
Revenue bonds can also be considered not risky, specially with some utilities like electricity, 
which can raise price when it is needed (and people will have to buy it).

Important factors going into ratings of GOs are economic strength and size. The rating of 
revenue bonds is determined by a key ratio known as the "debt service coverage ratio".
It's defined as the amount of money specifically dedicated to payment of debt service
divided by the amount of debt service to be paid. It is estimeated for the future, how much
money is going to be available next year and next and so on. The past ratio is called 
"historical debt service ratio".

An historical debt service ratio of at least two is generally required for an A rating. Ratio
of five or six times debt service is considered fantastic. No matter how sound management is,
revenue bonds are almost never rated AAA, but they can still be a great investment (more yield).

Among GOs weakest credibility have large cities with deteriorating downtown cores and small cities
with shrinking populations (and so the tax base).

Among revenue bonds weakest credibility have hospitals with strong dependence on government and
private purpose bonds (specially constituted authorities on behalf of private businesses)

# Bond insurance
In return for a fee paid by the issuer, bond insurance firms guaranteed that in the vent the issuer
was unable to pay interest or principal the insurer would pay. Bonds with lower investment ratings
with insurance would score AAA.

Bond insurance promoted liquidity (through AAA rating) and lowered interest costs to issuers.

The insurers failed with the 2007 financial crisis, because of insuring many subprime mortgages.

# Pre-refunded bonds
They are as safe as treasuries, because they are backed by them. These are bonds that were issued
when interest rates were higher. The issuer wants to refund high coupon bonds if the interest
rates decline. They issue lower coupon rate bonds ("refunding" bonds), which cover the interest
payments and principal of previous higher coupon bonds. The proceeds from the sale of refunding bonds 
are used to buy treasuries. The coupons from treasuries are used to pay interest on older bonds.

# Letters of credit
Similar to insurance, but this time insurer does not have to pay for bonds, but they can lend money. 

# Call risk
Munis can be called before maturity. Typical call date is 10 years with a price slightly above par.
The higher yield the more attractive to investor, but more likely to be called.